# Function-evaluation-based-NOA-for-CEC2020
In this study, our recently-proposed algorithm, called Nutcracker optimization algorithm (NOA), is compared to some recently-published algorithms, such as dandelion optimizer (DO), snake optimizer (SO), Fick's law algorithm (FLA), COVIDOA, smell agent optimizer (SAO), arithmetic optimization algorithm (AOA), butterfly optimization algorithm (BOA), dragonfly algorithm (DA), sand cat swarm optimization (SCSO), and prairie dog optimization (PDO), to show its effectiveness for solving CEC2020. This comparison is based on several performance metrics, including best fitness, average fitness, worst fitness, standard deviation (SD), Friedman means rank (F-rank), p-value returned by the Wilcoxon rank sum test, and computational cost. All algorithms have been executed under two different termination conditions to reveal if they could perform well under any conditions. The first termination condition is satisfied when reaching the maximum number of function evaluations. In this condition, a function evaluation counter is used to store the number of times the objective function has been called so far. On the other side, the second termination condition is satisfied when achieving the desired maximum. In this condition, an iteration counter is used to store the number of times all individuals in the population have been updated and evaluated. To ensure a fair comparison among algorithms, they must all be executed under the same function evaluations or the same maximum number of iterations. The maximum number of iterations is the result of dividing the maximum number of function evaluations by the population size. Meanwhile, the maximum number of function evaluations is the result of multiplying the population size by the given maximum number of iterations. Ultimately, the experimental findings show the outperformance of our proposed NOA over all rival optimizers in terms of various performance metrics, except for the computational cost.
